Procedural-style design leads to one object with a lion’s share of the responsibilities, while most other objects only hold data or execute simple processes.
The Blob
Software Development

Technology is changing so rapidly that developers often have trouble keeping up with current versions of software and finding combinations of product releases that work together.
Continuous Obsolescence

Dead code and forgotten design information is frozen in an ever-changing design.
Lava Flow

Object-oriented analysis and design (OOA&D) models are often presented without clarifying the viewpoint represented by the model.
Ambiguous Viewpoint

The output of experienced, nonobject-oriented developers who design and implement an application in an object-oriented language. 
Functional Decomposition

Poltergeists are classes with very limited roles and effective life cycles.
Poltergeists

A piece of software or hardware that serves no useful purpose on the current project.
Boat Anchor
 
A familiar technology or concept applied obsessively to many software problems.
Golden Hammer
  
A ____ is reached by modifying a reusable component if the modified component is no longer maintained and supported by the supplier. 
Dead End

Ad hoc software structure makes it difficult to extend and optimize code.
Spaghetti Code

Software that fails straightforward behavioral tests may be an example of _____.
Input Kludge

Numerous bugs are found in released software products.
Walking through a Minefield

Code reused by copying source statements leads to significant maintenance problems.
Cut-and-Paste Programming

In some architecture and management circles, there is an explicit policy to keep system developers isolated from the system’s end users.
Mushroom Management

Arises when converting the existing software interfaces to distributed interfaces. If the same design is used for distributed computing, a number of problems emerge. 
Autogenerated Stovepipe

Characterized by a lack of coordination and planning across a set of systems. 
Stovepipe Enterprise

When horizontal and vertical design elements are intermixed, an unstable architecture results.
Jumble

Subsystems are integrated in an ad hoc manner using multiple integration strategies and mechanisms, and all are integrated point to point.
Stovepipe System

Document-driven software processes often produce less-than-useful requirements and specifications because the authors evade making important decisions.
Cover Your Assets

Occurs in systems that are highly dependent upon proprietary architectures.
Vendor Lock-In

A product that claims openness and conformance to standards that have no enforceable meaning.
Wolf Ticket

Management of risk in follow-on system development is often overlooked due to overconfidence and recent system successes.
Architecture by Implication

Software projects are often staffed with programmers with widely varying skills and productivity levels.
Warm Bodies

Creates overly complex architectures that lack coherence.
Design by Committee

An excessively complex class interface.
Swiss Army Knife

The pervasive lack of technology transfer between software projects leads to substantial reinvention.
Reinvent the Wheel

Egalitarian software processes often ignore people’s talents to the detriment of the project. 
The Grand Old Duke of York

In addition to technical responsibilities, developers spend too much time answering the concerns of managers and decision makers arising from these reports. 
Blowhard Jamboree

Striving for perfection and completeness in the analysis phase often leads to project gridlock and excessive thrashing of requirements/models.
Analysis Paralysis

On some projects, developers become stuck preparing viewgraphs and documents instead of developing software.
Viewgraph Engineering

Excessive planning for software projects leads to complex schedules that cause downstream problems. 
Death by Planning

Some people begin to worry obsessively about the kinds of things that can go wrong.
Fear of Success

Difficult people frequently obstruct and divert the software development process.
Corncob

Intellectual violence occurs when someone who understands a theory, technology, or buzzword uses this knowledge to intimidate others in a meeting situation.
Intellectual Violence

Habitual indecisiveness and other bad management habits lead to de facto decisions and chronic development crises.
Irrational Management

A management team, eager for new business, sometimes (inadvertently) encourages misperceptions and makes commitments beyond the capabilities of the organization to deliver operational technology.
Smoke and Mirrors

Inattention to the management of software development processes can cause directionlessness and other symptoms.
Project Mismanagement

As guidelines progress through approval and publication processes, they often are attributed with unfulfilled qualities of completeness, prescriptiveness, and mandated implementation.
Throw It over the Wall

Months of boredom followed by demands for immediate delivery.
Fire Drill

Personality conflicts between managers can dramatically affect the work environment.
The Feud

E-mail is an inappropriate medium for many topics and sensitive communications.
E-mail Is Dangerous